---
layout: post
title: Back to Africa ..and of conferences and travel documents
published: true
---
So I have been back from Italy for close to 75 days now, and it has mostly been chilling, watching television and catching up with family. I have also put in a number of applications with some local companies for data science jobs and had a grand total of ZERO responses. My closest bet at the moment is a company that does not know whether to put me under IT or Finance departments. But that is the situation in South Africa currently, with the onset of economic problems and perennial youth unemployment. Worse still, I am Zimbabwean in South Africa, job issues are always to be expected. So what to do? 

In February 2018 I, with others, started a group called Data Science Zimbabwe that we hope can be a platform for people in data-related professions and academia to lead the 4th Industrial Revolution in Zimbabwe. We have only so far communicated via WhatsApp, but I am hopeful of the prospects. I am hoping we can have our first meet-up soon and start putting together a solid foundation for the advancement of data science and machine and deep learning as well as Artificial Intelligence in Zimbabwe. So for the time being, that is what my data science path has led me to and I am relishing the challenge. 

I have also done a talk proposal for PyCon Zimbabwe on Agent-based modeling and Network Analysis using MESA and NetworkX, hopefully the experience is positive and provides an opportunity to make Data Science Zimbabwe visible within the tech community. This leads me to an important topic, that impacted me personally and have seen general discussions about on social media as well, globally. The choice of venues for conferences. 

The Deep Learning Indaba was set for Stellenbosch University in South Africa. This is an important conference, in terms of my field and is important that participation, especially from Africans, show that the field is alive and kicking on the continent. However, South Africa is one of the hardest countries to get immigration documents for on the continent, especially to fellow Africans. I know the topic of holding conferences in countries that are inclusive is not new, and has gained traction in light of the trends in geopolitics in Europe and America. And here in Africa it is of no less concern. I was heartbroken when I saw a tweet about someone who had been given the whole funding to attend the conference, on condition they got their documents for travel to South Africa sorted out. No prize for guessing the outcome of their application. 

Is Africa ready for full on co-operation in cutting edge fields that transcends borders? Can we get the academics, practitioners, experts etc in the same room, without hassle about movement from country A to country B? Should these types of conferences, be it in our field or any other, be held in countries that make it hard for those from other countries to travel there and be a part of these important get-togethers. These are the kind of matters that will affect Africa's ability to embrace advancements in any area and be able to build lasting solutions to problems on our continent. I feel sorry for anyone who would have wanted to attend this conference and has to live with Twitter updates and Github practicals. 

Rwanda has done Africa a solid with their changes to requirements for travel to the country, for Africans. This is a move to be applauded. But at this moment, I would tip my hat to any country on the continent that will suspend its (obviously) rigid, red tape surrounding movement for academic or professional conferences and gatherings and get-togethers, because if Africa is going to progress, we need to have great minds together as frequently as possible. This will help create networks all over the continent, not hindered by the travel requirements and a solid hope for the getting a lot of work done and catching up to global levels of progress in many fields. 

I hope one day Africa will not let colonial demarcations hamper the progress of its people, and we will see the free flow of knowledge from Cape to Cairo. 
