---
layout: post
title: Filling the void
published: true
---
Looking out of the window, on a moody January morning, it is hard to tell how I got here. It is 2021, and it seems the hopes for a better 2021 have not started to bear fruit, with the pandemic raging more than ever, outisde in the world. Infections and deaths are up, many countries hitting record highs, eclipsing the first wave figures. But life has to go on. We live day by day. 

It has been a good 2+ years since I have written anything, and this post, as titled, is to fill that gap and give a perspective on the road ahead. I guess it also refers to the perspective itself. I feel this an effort to rise to some occassion, and that I can only do by admitting that I had lost my way, somewhere along the road. 

I remember, 2018 felt great. Completed my qualification, spoke at my first conference, constituted [Data Science Zimbabwe](https://zimbabwedata.science) and we had our first meet up and I was looking forward to taking my first real venture, Peachgrove, an horticultural produce and marketing venture, off the ground. Everything felt good. The sky was the limit. But Zimbabwe is not an easy country, and the hope of the reset in 2017 (despite the same honchos still running the country) faded and all illusions disappeared quite fast. Having to build up and get things running in a volatile environment meant the horticultural venture would really not translate to anything except lessons. Lessons that will be valuable in anything I attempt going forward and still one day, I certainly hope to explore the venture, to start again, for I feel it is a part of my being. 

Along the road, another venture came up. Quantum Analytica, a data analytics-marketing-systems development outfit. The prospects looked great. We had initial contact with multiple clients, the appetite for our services seemed bottomless. The discussions were amazing, the founding team even more so. But maybe because I was still holding on to Peachgrove, hoping that I can find a way out of the malaise it was suffering, and Quantum Analytica seemed to be able to play a role in that. But it also fell apart. The environment in Zimbabwe has impacted a lot of things for entrepreneurs. The volatility impacting the effectiveness of any resources, but nothing is more poignant than the impact on the people resources. It becomes to hard to get people to buy in into any entrepreneurial venture. It definitely is not unexpected given the situation. It still makes it hard. And so we found ourselves having to shelf a good opportunity. And I went back to farming...

All the while, Data Science Zimbabwe has been chugging along, quietly in the background. DSZ was created as a means to provide a platform to bring together Zimbabweans interested in data and data-based solutions together. And we managed to get the interest going in a short time. I am so grateful to the community for making up a vibrant community. Operating on a zero revenue budget, there has been more done within the organization that I could have thought in 2018, beginning the journey. And it has been my ray of hope, as everything else seemed untenable, the prospect of making an impact is very humbling and satisfying. And even in 2020 when the pandemic threatened everything else, the community kept on, engaging over Whatsapp, participating in hackathons, and I can definitely say for the near future, it is my main consideration and I hope 2021 sees the community grow in leaps and bounds, and initiatives lead to visibility for the community at the forefront of the 4th Industrial Revolution in Zimbabwe. 

So 2021 is here. And the hope is that for the lessons learnt in the past 2 years, and the new normal that is being hashed out by the pandemic, resilience and taking care of opportunities that present themselves are the order of the day to fill that void and get back to the unfettered hope that coursed these veins in 2018. 

Let's go!!!! I am up for it.
